Q1- You are required to find out which category is performing better in terms of profit than the others so that business can find ways to improve.
Write a query for the same. Result should be such that the highest profit category and its respective sum of profit be on the top of result set.
Sol-SELECT DISTINCT(Category), SUM(Profit) FROM orders
    GROUP BY Category
    ORDER BY SUM(Profit) DESC;

Q2-You found that for Chandigarh the city is marked as Delhi. You pointed out this mistake to database manager and he asks you to update the table Write the query to update the city as Chandigarh where the State is Chandigarh.
Sol-UPDATE orders
    SET City='Chandigarh'
    WHERE State='Chandigarh';

Q3-As a next step, you want to know how much company profit has been generated by the company so far.
Write a query to find the total profit sum from orders table.
Sol-SELECT SUM(Profit) FROM orders;

Q4-You saw that the company has made good profits so far. You are required to report which order had the highest profit so far.
Write a query to get the OrderID, ProductName and Profit. Result should be with respect to profit(In increasing order).
Sol-SELECT Order_ID, Product_Name, Profit FROM orders
    ORDER BY Profit;

Q5-Going through the data, you also want to report orders where there was loss.
Write a query to get all the orders where there was a loss and report the order ID, product name and loss. Sort the result in a format that the highest loss is on the top.
Sol-SELECT Order_ID, Product_Name, Profit FROM orders
    WHERE Profit<0 
    ORDER BY Profit;

Q6-Now you know all the orders where there was a loss. You are curious to know why the company made a loss on those items. You see that discounts are also given on some items.Write a query to get the list of all orders which have loss and sort them in descending order of discount given.
Print OrderID, ProductName, Profit and Discount.
Sol-SELECT Order_ID, Product_Name, Profit, Discount FROM orders
    WHERE Profit<0
    ORDER BY Discount DESC;

Q7-You now want to know if there are particular states which are making losses. Write a query to get the State and sum of profit for each state. The result should be in increasing order of profit.
Sol-SELECT State, SUM(Profit) FROM orders
    GROUP BY State
    ORDER BY SUM(Profit);

Q8-You have done a great job in helping the firm come up with states which are reporting losses. Now you want to go further and list categories in each state and see their profit. This will help analyze how various categories are performing in each state.
Write a query to get state, category and sum of profits.
Sol-SELECT State, Category, SUM(Profit) FROM orders
    GROUP BY State, Category
    ORDER BY State;

Q9-Write a query to create a table in the database with Name as Manager and with values provided. Do assign proper Primary key.
Sol-CREATE Table Manager(
    Segment varchar(100) Primary Key,
    Segment_Manager Varchar(100)
    );
    INSERT INTO Manager
    values('Consumer', 'Gaganjit Singh'),
    ('Corporate', 'Aman Jain'),
    ('Home Office', 'Kush Arora');
    SELECT * FROM Manager;

Q10-Now you have a table in the database named Manager. You are required to get the total profit and total orders for each segment.
Write a query to get Segment, count of order, sum of profit.
Sol-SELECT DISTINCT(Segment), COUNT(Order_ID), SUM(Profit) FROM orders
    GROUP BY Segment;

Q11-Since you want to help the segment managers get fair evaluation and your manager has asked you to get the covid effect on the sales.
Write the query to get sum of sales, sum of profit for the year 2020.
Sol-SELECT SUM(Sales), SUM(Profit) FROM orders
    where Order_Date like '%20';

Q12-Great job! You have helped your manager make the right decision in performance evaluation of segment managers. As for the next task, he wants you to help him do analysis on the customer level.
Write a query to get Customer ID and sum of profit for each. The result should be such that you are easily able to find the highest profit customer.
Sol-SELECT Customer_ID, SUM(Profit) FROM orders
    GROUP BY Customer_ID
    ORDER BY SUM(Profit) ;